I mentioned in the introduction
that we're going to look at
using the business model canvas to
frame the business' strategy and
anchor our user stories and
prototypes back to that.
Now, you may be thinking, hey, my job is
just to implement an IT project on time
and on budget, they don't want me to make
strategy and we're not saying that here.
We're just saying we're going to use this
particular shorthand to make sure we
understand the company's strategy and
key facets of the operation,
so that we can dovetail
the enterprise software back to that.
The reality is, if you're running
a residential DSL internet business
versus you're running a private bank for
wealthy individuals,
you're going to need enterprise software
setups that are extremely different.
Vendors do not necessarily do a really
great job of giving you a play book on
how to distinguish these
different situations and
what you ought to do with their software
to make it work well in those situations.
And that's what we're going to cover here,
you're going to learn how to do that.
And once you become fluent
in these techniques,
this module is called the 20
minute strategy brief.
You will be able to sit down and
pencil out a strategy with a client,
internal stakeholder,
whatever in around 20 minutes.
This will help you have some structure
to understand what's valuable.
It will give you nice clear
linkages to success criteria.
And it allow you to drive forward and
backward to and from discussable designs
that are clearly link to the company's
business model and their strategy.
Clients, internal stakeholders
nobody wants to pay for
strategy, often they don't
want to even pay for design.
They think that it's waste of time,
you should just get to the real
work of implementing the software.
But as we've seen, a lot of these
implementations end up a disaster.
In fact, most of them are a failure
in the eyes of key stakeholders.
And so that's pretty important to avoid.
So, we're going to keep
this extremely relevant,
extremely focused around our key goals and
you will find that this is something that
you can do at the very beginning of
a project without making a big stink.
If you are an external vendor of
some sort, enterprise software or
consultant you will be able to do it
very easily in the presales process.
And I think that you'll find that your
collaborators, your stakeholders,
your bosses are going to thank you.
So we're going to use this item,
the business model canvas.
This was created by a man named Alex
Osterwalder and a team of collaborators,
and the nice thing about it is that
it's just a really useful shorthand for
thinking through a business model and
making that very visible.
I think that really in
my experience with it,
these are the three most important
questions that you want to ask about
the business model to
thoughtfully populate it.
And that's what we're going to go
through here in the next few videos.
Before you do that, my recommendation is
you pencil out one of these positioning
statements for
your company or your client.
This is a good way to make sure you've
thought through the basics of what
the business is, who it does work for and
what's it's primary point
of differentiation.
And these are just things that you'll
want to kind of have on hand before we
dive in too deeply to
the business model canvas.
So even if you're not
positive if it's right,
just try penciling it out real quick.
Here's an example for Home Depot, this is
available in the lesson materials as well.
And here's an example for
United Children's Theater.
This is a non-profit organization that
provides outsource arts education
to students in public schools K-12.
So it's an after-school program for
learning theater and the arts.
We're going to go through this in three
parts as we move through the next
few videos.
The first is who are these buyers and
why do they buy stuff from this company or
use stuff?
What is the end-to-end
customer relationship?
So, how does the customer find out about
this product, buy it, get it, use it?
Keep buying it,
tell other people about it.
How does all that work?
because it turns out, those touch points,
even if we don't directly deal with CRM or
Customer Facing Software, understanding
those touch points is a pretty important
part of understanding what kind of
business we're working with, and
what's important to it.
And then we are going to close with
the view of what are the really uniquely
strategically important activities that
the company undertakes to execute its
strategy?
And those go in this portion
of the Business Model Canvas.
Over the next few videos here,
we're going to work through
those three questions.
And at the end of this process you'll be
able to sketch out a business model for
your client or employer in 20 minutes and
link that forward to thoughtful
prototypes, user stories, and
ultimately valuable enterprise
software implementations.